mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/README.md, before:

CMU Panoptic Dataset preprocessing scripts
=======

These scripts help preprocess CMU Panoptic dataset so that it can be used with `class Human36MMultiViewDataset`.

Here is how we do it (brace yourselves):

0. Make sure you have a lot (around 200+ GB) of free disk space. Otherwise, be prepared to always carefully delete intermediate files (e.g. after you extract movies, delete the archives).

1. Allocate a folder for the dataset. Make it accessible as `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic/`, i.e. either

    * store your data `$SOMEWHERE_ELSE` and make a soft symbolic link:
    ```bash
    mkdir $THIS_REPOSITORY/data
    ln -s $SOMEWHERE_ELSE $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic
    ```
    * or just store the dataset along with the code at `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic/`.

__NOTE: WHILE IT IS ADVISED THAT YOU DOWNLOAD ALL DATA FROM THE APPROPRIATE LINKS BELOW, YOU DO NOT HAVE TO, AS THE SCRIPT WILL TAKE CARE OF MISSING SCENES OR DATA FOR YOU. HOWEVER, THIS MAY ALSO MEAN INVALID TRAINING/TESTING DATA.__

1. Clone the [panoptic toolbox](https://github.com/CMU-Perceptual-Computing-Lab/panoptic-toolbox). Follow their manual to download, extract and unpack CMU Panoptic dataset into image files (follow up to step 4 of the manual). 

There are many poses and scenes that you can use, for example, [`171204_pose1`](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/171204_pose1.html) under the ["Range of Motion"](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/range_of_motion.html) scene and [`170407_haggling_a2`](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/170407_haggling_a2.html) under the ["Haggling"](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/haggling.html) scene. It does not matter which set of scenes, poses or even images that you choose to extract; the scripts will handle that. It is advised that you only download the HD videos/images though.

However, you must copy them over with the right structure (in this case `SCENE_NAME` is `171026_pose1`):
```
FORMATTING/ORGANISATION OF FOLDERS & FILES

Images:
    $DIR_ROOT/[POSE_NAME]/hdImgs/[VIEW_ID]/[VIEW_ID]_[FRAME_ID].jpg
    (e.g.) ./171026_pose1/hdImgs/00_24/00_24_00012200.jpg

Pose Data:
    $DIR_ROOT/[POSE_NAME]/hdPose3d_stage1_coco19/body3DScene_[FRAME_ID].jpg
    (e.g.) ./171026_pose1/hdPose3d_stage1_coco19/body3DScene_00012200.json

    JSON data has this notable format:
    "bodies":[
        {
            "id": [PERSON_ID],
            "joints": [ ARRAY OF JOINT COORDINATES IN COCO 19 FORMAT]
        },
        {
            ...
        }
    ] 

Camera Calibration Data:
    $DIR_ROOT/[POSE_NAME]/calibration_[POSE_NAME].json
```

Move the folders to `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic`.

2. We need the BBOXES detections of each person in the scene, by camera. You can either generate the necessary npy file yourself, or use the npy file shipped with this repo at $THIS_REPOSITORY/mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/.

To generate the npy file yourself, you need to download the files from the original paper's [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Nf2XPjHR4rw7-nESrrcoI8rMmdJmuxqX). See the original GitHub issue [#19](https://github.com/karfly/learnable-triangulation-pytorch/issues/19#issuecomment-545993330) for more details.

Save the bboxes in their original directory structure at `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/pretrained/cmu`

Then, run the python file in `$THIS_REPOSITORY/mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/` as follows:

```bash
python3 generate-labels-npy.py  
```

3. 

4. Run `generate-labels-npy.py` to convert the data and bbox info from native json format to an npy format which the `CMUPanopticDataset(Dataset)` class can use. The first argument is the directory to the CMU Panoptic Data; the second argument is to the pretrained bounding boxes for the person detections:

```bash
python3 $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/pretrained/cmu
```

There will be an output file `cmu-multiview-labels-{BBOXES_SOURCE}bboxes.npy` in the `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic` folder. In this case, if you used the MRCNN bboxes, then {BBOX_SOURCE} will clearly be MRCNN
 
1. Optionally, you can test if everything went well by viewing frames with skeletons and bounding boxes on a GUI machine:

    ```bash
    python3 view-dataset.py $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic/extra/human36m-multiview-labels-{BBOXES_SOURCE}.npy [<start-sample-number> [<samples-per-step>]]`
    ```

    You can test different settings by changing dataset constructor parameters in `view-dataset.py`.

Commit message:

Updated usage and bbox collection file

mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/README.md, after:

CMU Panoptic Dataset preprocessing scripts
=======

These scripts help preprocess CMU Panoptic dataset so that it can be used with `class Human36MMultiViewDataset`.

Here is how we do it (brace yourselves):

0. Make sure you have a lot (around 200+ GB) of free disk space. Otherwise, be prepared to always carefully delete intermediate files (e.g. after you extract movies, delete the archives).

1. Allocate a folder for the dataset. Make it accessible as `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic/`, i.e. either

    * store your data `$SOMEWHERE_ELSE` and make a soft symbolic link:
    ```bash
    mkdir $THIS_REPOSITORY/data
    ln -s $SOMEWHERE_ELSE $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic
    ```
    * or just store the dataset along with the code at `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic/`.

__NOTE: WHILE IT IS ADVISED THAT YOU DOWNLOAD ALL DATA FROM THE APPROPRIATE LINKS BELOW, YOU DO NOT HAVE TO, AS THE SCRIPT WILL TAKE CARE OF MISSING SCENES OR DATA FOR YOU. HOWEVER, THIS MAY ALSO MEAN INVALID TRAINING/TESTING DATA.__

1. Clone the [panoptic toolbox](https://github.com/CMU-Perceptual-Computing-Lab/panoptic-toolbox). Follow their manual to download, extract and unpack CMU Panoptic dataset into image files (follow up to step 4 of the manual). 

There are many poses and scenes that you can use, for example, [`171204_pose1`](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/171204_pose1.html) under the ["Range of Motion"](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/range_of_motion.html) scene and [`170407_haggling_a2`](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/170407_haggling_a2.html) under the ["Haggling"](http://domedb.perception.cs.cmu.edu/haggling.html) scene. It does not matter which set of scenes, poses or even images that you choose to extract; the scripts will handle that. It is advised that you only download the HD videos/images though.

However, you must copy them over with the right structure (in this case `SCENE_NAME` is `171026_pose1`):
```
FORMATTING/ORGANISATION OF FOLDERS & FILES

Images:
    $DIR_ROOT/[POSE_NAME]/hdImgs/[VIEW_ID]/[VIEW_ID]_[FRAME_ID].jpg
    (e.g.) ./171026_pose1/hdImgs/00_24/00_24_00012200.jpg

Pose Data:
    $DIR_ROOT/[POSE_NAME]/hdPose3d_stage1_coco19/body3DScene_[FRAME_ID].jpg
    (e.g.) ./171026_pose1/hdPose3d_stage1_coco19/body3DScene_00012200.json

    JSON data has this notable format:
    "bodies":[
        {
            "id": [PERSON_ID],
            "joints": [ ARRAY OF JOINT COORDINATES IN COCO 19 FORMAT]
        },
        {
            ...
        }
    ] 

Camera Calibration Data:
    $DIR_ROOT/[POSE_NAME]/calibration_[POSE_NAME].json
```

Move the folders to `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic`.

2. We need the BBOXES detections of each person in the scene, by camera. You can either generate the necessary npy file yourself, or use the npy file shipped with this repo at $THIS_REPOSITORY/mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/.

To generate the npy file yourself, you need to download the files from the original paper's [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Nf2XPjHR4rw7-nESrrcoI8rMmdJmuxqX). See the original GitHub issue [#19](https://github.com/karfly/learnable-triangulation-pytorch/issues/19#issuecomment-545993330) for more details.

Save the bboxes in their original directory structure at `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/pretrained/cmu`

Then, run the python file in `$THIS_REPOSITORY/mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/` as follows:

```bash
python3 collect-bboxes-npy.py <path/to/mrcnn-detections/folder> <path/to/output/file>
```

For example (default):

```bash
python3 collect-bboxes-npy.py $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/pretrained/cmu/mrcnn-detections $THIS_REPOSITORY/mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing
```

3. Run `generate-labels-npy.py` to convert the data and bbox info from native json format to an npy format which the `CMUPanopticDataset(Dataset)` class can use. The first argument is the directory to the CMU Panoptic Data; the second argument is to the npy file of pretrained bounding boxes for the person detections, generated after the previous step:

```bash
python3 <path/to/data> <path/to/bbox-npy-file>
```

For example (default):

```bash
python3 $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic $THIS_REPOSITORY/mvn/datasets/cmu_preprocessing/cmu-bboxes.npy
```

There will be an output file `cmu-multiview-labels-{BBOXES_SOURCE}bboxes.npy` in the `$THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic` folder. In this case, if you used the MRCNN bboxes, then {BBOX_SOURCE} will clearly be MRCNN
 
1. Optionally, you can test if everything went well by viewing frames with skeletons and bounding boxes on a GUI machine:

    ```bash
    python3 view-dataset.py $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic $THIS_REPOSITORY/data/cmupanoptic/extra/human36m-multiview-labels-{BBOXES_SOURCE}.npy [<start-sample-number> [<samples-per-step>]]`
    ```

    You can test different settings by changing dataset constructor parameters in `view-dataset.py`.
